Getting started guides for Kyma (#9296)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/getting-started/10-create-function.md

---
title: Create a Function
type: Getting Started
---

> Let's now repeat the microservice flow for a Function. This guide shows how you can create a simple Function (`orders-function`) with the same logic as the one in the microservice. In further guides, you will expose the Function, bind it to the Redis storage, and subscribe it to the `order.deliverysent.v1` event type from Commerce mock.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's now repeat the microservice flow for the Function. This guide shows how you can create a simple Function (`orders-function`) with the same logic as the one in the microservice. In further guides, you will expose the Function, bind it to the Redis storage, and subscribe it to the `order.deliverysent.v1` event type from Commerce mock.
```
I believe here we mean `Function` as the concept, not an instance, just like `the microservice`.

## Reference

This guide demonstrates how [Serverless](/components/event-mesh/) works in Kyma. It allows you to build, run, and manage serverless applications called Functions. You can bind them to other services, subscribe business events from external solutions to them, and trigger the Function's logic upon receiving a given event type.

## Steps

Follows these steps:

<div tabs name="steps" group="create-function">
  <details>
  <summary label="kubectl">
  kubectl
  </summary>

> 1. Apply the [Function CR](/components/serverless/#custom-resource-function) that specifies the Function's logic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Apply a [Function CR](/components/serverless/#custom-resource-function) that specifies the Function's logic:
```

  ```bash
  kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/master/orders-service/deployment/orders-function.yaml
  ```

2. Check that the Function was created and all its conditions are set to `True`:

    ```bash
    kubectl get functions orders-function -n orders-service
    ```

    Expect a response similar to this one:

    ```bash
    NAME                CONFIGURED   BUILT   RUNNING   VERSION   AGE
    orders-function     True         True    True      1         18m
    ```

    </details>
    <details>
    <summary label="console-ui">
    Console UI
    </summary>

> 1. Select the `orders-service` Namespace from the drop-down list in the top navigation panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the drop-down list in the top navigation panel, select the `orders-service` Namespace.
```

See [this comment](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/9296#discussion_r478392039).

2. Go to **Development** > **Functions** in the left navigation panel and select **Create Function**.

> 3. In the pop-up box, provide the `orders-function` name. Add the `app=orders-function` and `example=orders-function` labels, and select **Create** to confirm the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the pop-up box, provide the name `orders-function. Add the `app=orders-function` and `example=orders-function` labels, and select **Create** to confirm the changes.
```
I won't push if you're strongly against this change, but it feels to me like `the X name` = `the name of X`, and `the name X` = `put X as the name/name's value`.

  >**TIP:** Separate multiple Function labels in the Console UI with commas.

>   The pop-up box will close and a message will appear on the screen after a while, confirming that the Function was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The pop-up box will close and a message on the screen will confirm that the Function was created.
```
It's optional, but it's simpler and briefer.

> 4. In the **Source** tab of the Function details view that opens up automatically, enter the Function's code from the [`orders-function.js`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/master/orders-service/deployment/orders-function.js) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Source** tab of the automatically opened Function details view, enter the Function's code from the [`orders-function.js`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/master/orders-service/deployment/orders-function.js) file.
```

or 
```
4. In the automatically opened **Source** tab of the Function details view, enter the Function's code from the [`orders-function.js`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/master/orders-service/deployment/orders-function.js) file.
```
depending on what exactly opens up automatically.

Author: 1st one :)

5. In the **Dependencies** tab, enter:

  ```js
  {
    "name": "orders-function",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "dependencies": {
      "redis": "3.0.2"
    }
  }
  ```

6. Select **Save** to confirm the changes.

>   You will see a message confirming that the changes were saved. Once deployed, the new Function should have the `RUNNING` status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You will see a message confirming that the changes were saved. Once deployed, the new Function has the `RUNNING` status.
```
or `gets`, like you have in `docs/serverless/08-01-create-function.md` line 83.

>   You will see a message confirming the changes were saved. Once deployed, the new Function should have the `RUNNING` status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You will see a message confirming that the changes were saved. Once deployed, the new Function should have the `RUNNING` status.
```
